The Call of Cookiethulhu
------------------------

(You can blame Esqui for this idea, and the word "Necronomnomnomicon". Many dubious, worrying thanks!)

It was the darkest night of the year, and all the muppets of Sesame Street huddled inside their dim-lit homes, curtains drawn tight against the curling mist outside. I, alone in my house, sat in the attic organising the myriad of papers left behind by my newly departed uncle. I knew little of my uncle, for my family had always found ways to circumnavigate my questions and spoke in hushed tones whenever the uncle simply had to be spoken of. He was a scholar, that much was obvious--the papers he left behind were clearly of a scientific nature, though they clearly pertained to something that was not of a traditionally scientific nature; rather, something more esoteric. Amongst the paper, scraps of meaning could be determined--star charts; the occasional hydrographic chart; fragments of anthropological studies. But with his scholarly attention to detail came also a scholarly disdain for organisation, and try as I might, I could not discern a proper order or narrative to the papers he now studied.

I sank to my feathered behind, depressed at the thought of this great collection of knowledge resigned to the oblivion of history by my inability to restore it to proper order. As I did so, my beady eyes cast upon something else nestled amongst the papers--a surface of pewter or stone, curved, with the weathered marks of craftsmanship upon it. I brushed the papers aside and hefted the thing. It was a heavy object, perhaps a foot in height, depicting for the majority of its length a figure that perhaps was some kind of monster, or the distilled essence of such. It was tentacled like some unknown beast of the deep, yet bipedal in stature, with wide round eyes atop its head, and the remnants of fine chisel-work suggesting hair or fur upon its body. At the base was a section of text in some hieroglyphic alphabet that was meaningless to me, but I recalled some of them from the papers I had already investigated. In my rush to find them again, my grip on the statue wavered and it tumbled to the ground.

It hit the floor-boards with a crunch, chipping off a tiny piece, and as if to answer it a distant rumble of thunder echoed about the town. My heart stopped still, my chest tightening like a vice, and perhaps I would have died frozen to the spot had my reverie not been broken by a loud crashing at my door.

It was Oscar, the town drunk, who no sooner than I had opened my door to him stumbled in and was copiously sick upon my fireplace. He spun about twice on his feet, muttered something of the general nature of "My can, they took my can," before passing out promptly upon the floor. The stench from my fireplace was overwhelming me to the extent that I could not face a moment more within my house, and so took it upon myself to venture out into Sesame Street at retrieve the poor fool's trash can while he slept.

I stepped out into the night, gathering my heavy cloak around me as a futile defence against the rain that now fell in sheets from the blackened sky. Thunder rumbled again, and between its crashes I thought I heard the tinnier crashing of a trash can, deprived of its normal occupant, rolling down the street. I set off, cursing that Grouch's name under my breath as the rain soaked through to my feathers. Without too much trouble I located the 
